# About
This is a Go application for processing receipts and calculating reward points based on a given set of rules. 

# Instructions for running the application

## Prerequisites
If you dont have Docker and Go installed on your system, download them from the following links

https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/

https://go.dev/dl/

## Building Docker Image

1. Open a Terminal session and clone this repository to your a folder of your choosing using
```bash
git clone github.com/aforestsociety/receipt-processor.git
```

2. Navigate to the project directory
```bash
cd receipt-processor
```

3. If you'd like to view the test results, you can run them from this directory with the following command
```bash
go test ./...
```

3. Make sure you are at the same directory as the Dockerfile. The following command should display it
```bash
ls Dockerfile
```

3. Build the Docker image by running the following command (`dont forget the period!!`)
```bash
docker build -t receipt-processor .
```

4. Now that it's built, we can run the application with the following command
```bash
docker run -p 8080:8080 receipt-processor
```

5. The current Terminal session will spin up the application container and make it accesible at 
```
http://localhost:8080
```

6. Now you can send requests using an application like Postman or via command line with cURL. The endpoints are as follows:

```
POST -> http://localhost:8080/receipts/process
GET  -> http://localhost:8080/receipts/{id}/points
```

  - If using Postman, import the Receipt-Processor Endpoints collection from the repo into Postman. Try sending the POST Request to add a receipt. Then you can retrieve the points via the GET request.

  - If using cURL, send a request in the following format:

    *POST*
    ```bash
    curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{ 
      "retailer": "Sample Store", 
      "purchaseDate": "2022-09-09", 
      "purchaseTime": "14:30", 
      "items": [
        {"shortDescription": "Item 1", "price": "10.00"}, 
        {"shortDescription": "Item 2", "price": "5.00"}
        ],
        "total": "15.00"
        }' http://localhost:8080/receipts/process
    ```

    *GET*
    ```bash
    curl http://localhost:8080/receipts/{id}/points
    ```

7. To stop the container, press `Ctrl+C` in the terminal where you ran Docker from

---
# Original README 
# Receipt Processor

Build a webservice that fulfils the documented API. The API is described below. A formal definition is provided 
in the [api.yml](./api.yml) file, but the information in this README is sufficient for completion of this challenge. We will use the 
described API to test your solution.

Provide any instructions required to run your application.

Data does not need to persist when your application stops. It is sufficient to store information in memory. There are too many different database solutions, we will not be installing a database on our system when testing your application.

## Language Selection

You can assume our engineers have Go and Docker installed to run your application. Go is our preferred language, but it is not a requirement for this exercise.

If you are using a language other than Go, the engineer evaluating your submission may not have an environment ready for your language. Your instructions should include how to get an environment in any OS that can run your project. For example, if you write your project in Javascript simply stating to "run `npm start` to start the application" is not sufficient, because the engineer may not have NPM. Providing a docker file and the required docker command is a simple way to satisfy this requirement.

## Submitting Your Solution

Provide a link to a public repository, such as GitHub or BitBucket, that contains your code to the provided link through Greenhouse.

---
## Summary of API Specification

### Endpoint: Process Receipts

* Path: `/receipts/process`
* Method: `POST`
* Payload: Receipt JSON
* Response: JSON containing an id for the receipt.

Description:

Takes in a JSON receipt (see example in the example directory) and returns a JSON object with an ID generated by your code.

The ID returned is the ID that should be passed into `/receipts/{id}/points` to get the number of points the receipt
was awarded.

How many points should be earned are defined by the rules below.

Reminder: Data does not need to survive an application restart. This is to allow you to use in-memory solutions to track any data generated by this endpoint.

Example Response:
```json
{ "id": "7fb1377b-b223-49d9-a31a-5a02701dd310" }
```

## Endpoint: Get Points

* Path: `/receipts/{id}/points`
* Method: `GET`
* Response: A JSON object containing the number of points awarded.

A simple Getter endpoint that looks up the receipt by the ID and returns an object specifying the points awarded.

Example Response:
```json
{ "points": 32 }
```

---

# Rules

These rules collectively define how many points should be awarded to a receipt.

* One point for every alphanumeric character in the retailer name.
* 50 points if the total is a round dollar amount with no cents.
* 25 points if the total is a multiple of `0.25`.
* 5 points for every two items on the receipt.
* If the trimmed length of the item description is a multiple of 3, multiply the price by `0.2` and round up to the nearest integer. The result is the number of points earned.
* 6 points if the day in the purchase date is odd.
* 10 points if the time of purchase is after 2:00pm and before 4:00pm.


## Examples

```json
{
  "retailer": "Target",
  "purchaseDate": "2022-01-01",
  "purchaseTime": "13:01",
  "items": [
    {
      "shortDescription": "Mountain Dew 12PK",
      "price": "6.49"
    },{
      "shortDescription": "Emils Cheese Pizza",
      "price": "12.25"
    },{
      "shortDescription": "Knorr Creamy Chicken",
      "price": "1.26"
    },{
      "shortDescription": "Doritos Nacho Cheese",
      "price": "3.35"
    },{
      "shortDescription": "   Klarbrunn 12-PK 12 FL OZ  ",
      "price": "12.00"
    }
  ],
  "total": "35.35"
}
```
```text
Total Points: 28
Breakdown:
     6 points - retailer name has 6 characters
    10 points - 4 items (2 pairs @ 5 points each)
     3 Points - "Emils Cheese Pizza" is 18 characters (a multiple of 3)
                item price of 12.25 * 0.2 = 2.45, rounded up is 3 points
     3 Points - "Klarbrunn 12-PK 12 FL OZ" is 24 characters (a multiple of 3)
                item price of 12.00 * 0.2 = 2.4, rounded up is 3 points
     6 points - purchase day is odd
  + ---------
  = 28 points
```

----

```json
{
  "retailer": "M&M Corner Market",
  "purchaseDate": "2022-03-20",
  "purchaseTime": "14:33",
  "items": [
    {
      "shortDescription": "Gatorade",
      "price": "2.25"
    },{
      "shortDescription": "Gatorade",
      "price": "2.25"
    },{
      "shortDescription": "Gatorade",
      "price": "2.25"
    },{
      "shortDescription": "Gatorade",
      "price": "2.25"
    }
  ],
  "total": "9.00"
}
```
```text
Total Points: 109
Breakdown:
    50 points - total is a round dollar amount
    25 points - total is a multiple of 0.25
    14 points - retailer name (M&M Corner Market) has 14 alphanumeric characters
                note: '&' is not alphanumeric
    10 points - 2:33pm is between 2:00pm and 4:00pm
    10 points - 4 items (2 pairs @ 5 points each)
  + ---------
  = 109 points
```

---

# FAQ

### How will this exercise be evaluated?
An engineer will review the code you submit. At a minimum they must be able to run the service and the service must provide the expected results. You
should provide any necessary documentation within the repository. While your solution does not need to be fully production ready, you are being evaluated so
put your best foot forward.

### I have questions about the problem statement
For any requirements not specified via an example, use your best judgment to determine the expected result.

### Can I provide a private repository?
If at all possible, we prefer a public repository because we do not know which engineer will be evaluating your submission. Providing a public repository
ensures a speedy review of your submission. If you are still uncomfortable providing a public repository, you can work with your recruiter to provide access to
the reviewing engineer.

### How long do I have to complete the exercise?
There is no time limit for the exercise. Out of respect for your time, we designed this exercise with the intent that it should take you a few hours. But, please
take as much time as you need to complete the work.
